well the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees unoa says that diseases could
spread quickly among the displaced
population of Gaza as temperatures start
to rise they are saying the shortages of
water and the warming temperatures could
lead to a health catastrophe in the
strip it's issuing another appeal for
the safe access of humanitarian Aid to
the area well Han Mahmud joins us now
from Rafa in southern Gaza and so there
is this very important warning
about the spread of disease and
infection but conditions are already uh
so difficult and catastrophic in the
shrip are we already seeing signs of a a
Public Health
crisis yes absolutely and already
happening during winter time the cold
weather the flood that took place in
certain areas particularly evacuation
Zone where a flood was more often
happening the spread of diseases and the
contamination as people are are crowded
in very very small uh spaces in
evacuation Zone and also in residential
homes that are are are pretty much
providing a very uh a a strong
environment for the spread of not only
uh diseases that can be contained but
also infectious disease that going from
one place uh to another uh but also we
have the destruction of Waste Management
installations by this intense bombing
campaign the the destruction also of
medical uh waste disposal uh centers
across the Gaza Strip just restricts the
the process of collecting and and this
collecting of medical waste disposal and
other waste particularly Solid Waste
there are reports confirming close to
300,000 tons of of solid waste across
the gust and it's equally bad whether in
in winter time or right now as the the
weather is getting a little bit warmer
in each passing day the pass D were very
very unusually
hot in in over crowded RAF City where
reports of the spread of of a strong
odor of solid waste in in the roads and
all the the rubble fill roads and
particularly very close to evacuation
centers right in in the roads and close
to hospitals that has led to the spread
of infectious diseases there cases
documented by the health ministry as
well as the wh of the spread of
hepatitis A and other contamin and other
infectious disease particularly among
the children and women the most
vulnerable group in this War uh happened
to be uh from women and children who are
in constant need of medical attention
and proper medical attention but so far
given the the situations and the lack of
medical supplies and the inability of
the medical staff to uh to intervene and
provide life saving uh support and
life-saving intervention the situation
are increasingly becoming very difficult
and risky right now as the weather
temperature is it
changing in the meantime population that
can continuing to face air strikes tell
us about what's been happening in Rafa
overnight
yeah well the destruction of Waste
Management installation are the the
direct byproduct of the ongoing intense
bombing campaign because we're seeing
when a residential block or residential
area being targeted and destroyed it
just causing great deal of damage to the
surrounding area including public
facilities hyi hygiene's infrastructure
and it create this multi-layer problems
and misery that's been going on for the
past 6 months but and the top of that we
we look at eight workers being the
target uh not this time of overnight
attack where one Aid worker Belgian uh
development agency uh and his son a
seven-year-old son were killed inside a
residential home they were Sheltering in
but there's in then the past 45 minutes
constant gunfire uh from the naval
forces at the shore of Gaza uh directly
targeting areas at the moas evacuation
Zone the western part of the central
area in addition to the uh confirmed
report we're getting of the Red Cross
facility in Gaza that has been targeted
and partially destroyed with three
people were killed these people were
inside the Red Cross facility itself
Sheltering in fact we heard theyve been
Sheltering inside the facility for the
past couple months and since the Israeli
military keeps hurting people from one
place to another due to the intense
bombing campaign hanim Mahmud thank you
so much